---
layout:     post
title:      'High Performance Computing with R at the Leibniz Supercomputing Center'
subtitle:   "Applied R Munich 3rd MeetUp"
date:       2016-01-19 13:40:00
author:     "Andreas"
header-img: "img/2016-lrz-supermuc.jpg"
---

The 3rd MeetUp of the newly found R User Group in Munich!


Applied R is a group of R-enthusiasts from the department of statistics (LMU). 
Our goal is to organize regular MeetUps for everyone enthusiastic and interested 
in R and to provide a platform for exchange about everything related to R.

---

Applied R February-Edition:

## High Performance Computing with R at the Leibniz Supercomputing Center

Speakers: 

- Christoph Bernau (Department for high performance computing at Leibniz Supercomputing Center)
- Bernd Bischl (Professor for Computational Statistics at LMU)

#### Where: 
LMU Munich
Room W 201/Lehrturm 
Professor-Huber-Platz 2, München
How to get there: U3/U6 Universität, Exit B, take escalator up, door on the right. 

#### When: Monday, 22. February 2016,  19:00

#### Registration: Please register via [<u>meetup</u>](http://www.meetup.com/Applied-R-Munich/events/226912554/)!


---

#### Topics:  

Within the last 10 years, more and more researchers using R have run their 
projects at the Leibniz Supercomputing center (LRZ). In the talk, we will 
present the different approaches that have been applied in the last years in 
order to port R-scripts, which have originally been run on normal hardware, to 
the various HPC systems at LRZ. We will cover approaches for large shared memory 
machines, clusters, cloud like environments (comparable to Amazon EC2 or Azure), 
web-based solutions like RStudio Server and real supercomputers like LRZ's 
supermuc with its approximately 240000 computing cores.

We will illustrate the HPC approaches using a wide variety of R packages 
including multicore, snow, rredis, snowfall, the various 'do-variants' 
(doMC, doRedis, doSNOW), BatchJobs, BatchExperiments and the MPI based packages 
RMPI and pbdMPI.

The first part of the talk will be presented by Christoph Bernau.
In the second part of the talk Bernd Bischl offers more details on the packages 
BatchJobs and BatchExperiments.
